Felis catus is your taxonomic nomenclature,
An endothermic quadruped, carnivorous by nature;
Your visual, olfactory, and auditory senses
Contribute to your hunting skills and natural defenses.

I find myself intrigued by your subvocal oscillations,
A singular development of cat communications
That obviates your basic hedonistic predilection
For a rhythmic stroking of your fur to demonstrate affection.

A tail is quite essential for your acrobatic talents;
You would not be so agile if you lacked its counterbalance.
And when not being utilized to aid in locomotion,
It often serves to illustrate the state of your emotion.

O Spot, the complex levels of behavior you display
Connote a fairly well-developed cognitive array.
And though you are not sentient, Spot, and do not comprehend,
I nonetheless consider you a true and valued friend.
        -- Data, "Schisms"
%
Good tea. Nice house.
        -- Worf, "The Survivors"
%
Sir, I protest, I am not a merry man!
        -- Worf, "Qpid"
%
Five card stud, nothing wild. And the sky's the limit.
        -- Jean-Luc Picard, "All Good Things"
%
If there's nothing wrong with me...maybe there's something wrong with the
universe!
        -- Beverly Crusher, "Remember Me"
%
It is possible to commit no mistakes and still lose. That is not a weakness.
That is life.
        -- Jean-Luc Picard, "Peak Performance"
%
They invade our space and we fall back. They assimilate entire worlds and
we fall back. Not again. The line must be drawn here! This far, no further!
And *I* will make them pay for what they've done!
        -- Jean-Luc Picard, "Star Trek: First Contact"
%
There...are...four...lights!
        -- Jean-Luc Picard, "Chain of Command, Part II"
%
Assimilate this.
        -- Worf, "Star Trek: First Contact"
%
I have never subscribed to the theory that political power flows from the
barrel of a gun.
        -- Jean-Luc Picard, "High Ground"
%
The first speech censured, the first thought forbidden, the first freedom
denied...chains us all, irrevocably.
        -- Jean-Luc Picard, "The Drumhead"
%
Let's make sure that history never forgets the name...Enterprise.
        -- Jean-Luc Picard, "Yesterday's Enterprise"
%
You see he’s met two of your three criteria for sentience; so what if he meets
the third, consciousness, in even the smallest degree? What is he then?
I don’t know, do you?
        -- Jean-Luc Picard, "The Measure of a Man"
%
Jean-Luc, sometimes I think the only reason I come here is to listen to
these wonderful speeches of yours.
        -- Q, "True Q"
%
I could be chasing an untamed ornithoid without cause.
        -- Data, "Data's Day"
%
When one has been angry for a very long time, one gets used to it.
And it becomes comfortable, like...like old leather. And finally it becomes
so familiar that one can’t ever remember feeling any other way.
        -- Jean-Luc Picard, "The Wounded"
%
There is a way out of every box, a solution to every puzzle; it's just a
matter of finding it.
        -- Jean-Luc Picard, "Attached"
